# When Asked Why I am Agnostic

Typically, when someone asks why I am agnostic, I typically say "because i was not brought up in religion" despite having very reasonable objections to religious belief. We usually associate "religion" with "organized belief in God" and in the Central Valley this means "Being Catholic or Protestant". I believe religion is not exclusive to Theistic belief, but rather broadly can be thought of as a system of worship or a collection of people in which certain behaviors or customs, ethics, texts, prophecies, sacred scripture, morals, traditions etc. are common place and that there are in-group and out-group boundaries (typically the out-group are scene as heretical in some way). There tends to be a binary way of thinking about the out-group members vs in-group members, with clear delineations as to who belongs and who does not (despite having non-essential similarities). In this view, Communism (to me) can be scene as religious, therefore i reject it. There should be no dogma, everything is subject to scrutiny (this is the only absolute truth I can imagine). I may go so far to say that, being critical is a virtue and necessary for humans to employ (towards themselves) even if this means risking offending the in-group. The world is scene as complex, not black and white. Ofcourse, the religious person will agree on that, while simultaneously reverting to their pre-defined binary oppositional concepts that were handed down and never thoroughly questioned. Are Capitalists actually Evil (according to the communist they are the source of all problems)? Are markets our Gods (according to the capitalist who thinks there is no room for government intervention)? Are non-theists the spawn of Satan?

I typically do not label "Atheists" as religious, although some definitely are. The reason being: I do not think there is some all encompassing unifying features of Atheism (other then the rejection or imposition towards the theism assumption) that can define "disbelief". If something is not White that does not necessitate it is Black. Atheists do not share a belief in scripture, there is no unifying text that brings everyone together for worship, there really is no traditional events they share, the world view is not pre-defined by a set of commandments. Rather, the rejection of theism implies a sort of pluralism in belief, so necessarily they're non religious. There are certainly Atheists who identify as Marxists, who can be fervent in their Zeal towards acheiving the Revolution and bringing about the Marxist prophecy determined by Capitalistic internal contradictions. From a statistical point of view, if I condition on the variable "Atheism", the only thing I can predict will be "lack of belief". If i condition on "protestant theism", there are certainly differences in denominations but at the core I can predict more features of their core tenets than predicting what any particular Atheist will believe. This is the entire point of religion anyway; there is a community with many fundamental beliefs. Lumping Agnostics with Atheists completely misses the point of agnosticism (ill go further into that later).

Anyway, I would say many people who are labeled "Atheist" are not necessarily convinced with certainty in the absence of a God. Their conception of "God" probably differs, and doesnt fit into any of the pre-defined categories of the dominant abrahamic religions. One example I can think of is Spinoza. But why stop there? I could very well not think there is an omni-everything God who watches over and spoke to Abraham, but that does not mean I am necessarily Atheist. If I do not acknowledge the current conceptualization of something, does that mean I reject it all together? For example, suppose I reject how we define "Intelligence", does that mean I think there is no concept of intelligence or that the specific conceptualization is inaccurate? I'll let the reader decide. This is why there is a explosion in "religious but not affiliated" group; most likely because they cannot reconcile their experiences and the facts we have discovered of life over the past 400 years with the scholastic conceptions of God. Personally, this is not my position, but you can imagine that this is someones position somewhere. You can take it a step further; take the "moral" question: where do they come from? You can believe in deism, who kind of "got the ball rolling" but then left the scene and never intended on humans developing as they are. I think Lamarck was also like this To summarize, there simply are many ways to conceive of God (or Gods) without resorting to the traditional view that was imposed upon us for centuries. But then again, if you do not share the conception, you are lumped into the Pagan group and are de-facto evil. 

To say that Atheism/agnosticism is a "new" thing is also folly. Atheism goes back probably 1000 BC or even further. Epicurus, Ancient Eastern Philosophers, the school of atomism (are first formulation of science); I mean the examples are endless. When Christ came, I claim that many people who were non-believers or Pagans were coerced into the system. Descartes was to be very careful when formulating his thesis, as to not offend the Church (look what happened to Galileo) when he rejected Aristotelian "Science" (which is actually just another name for Teleology; something I will get into later). Who would actually come out when the tyranny of the Monarch/Church was quick to kill heretics? Martin Luther was a firm believer, but the Church labeled him a heretic. Even disagreeing with scripture was potential for death. There is no surprise to me that, in a secular society where you are free to speak/think/practice, less people will be frightened from expressing their true disbelief (despite the unfortunate fact of dealing with ostracization from your family if you come from a militantly religious family). I would also argue that, agnosticism is the default position, and people are sick of hearing assertions of "where it all came from" when it doesnt correspond with their experience or observation. Sure there are things which we cannot explain, but why assert in the absence of knowledge? That is only useful when the situation demands a decision be made because of some impending danger or deadline or something. You proceed in the absence of certainty on the presumption of that claim being true. Anyway, I am not here to make claims on behalf of others. I am here to explain my agnosticism because their appears to be significant misunderstanding (intentional probably) from certain communities (Atheists included). The irony behind all of this is that the Abrahamic religions are typically litered with platonic or artistotelian thought (both of which are pagans). Nicomachean Ethics is arguably everywhere in the thought. Sepcific philosophical devices are employed (mind-body dualism). To say that, the only way to think through deeper metaphysical questions is through a divine theistic lens, completely misses the point as to what philosophers and humans have been doing for thousands of years in the absence of religious world view. Why cant an agnostic ponder morals and rigorously follow whatever is rationally derived? Typically, agnostics or atheists reject certain philosophical assumptions which leads them to their view. There are more ways then one to rationally reject philosophical presuppositions: the relation is one-to-many not one-to-one. 

To explain my agnosticism as "not growing up religious", says very little but also says a lot. It shows that, your world view is partially an artifact of the conditioning you had as a child (or the lack of conditioning). This bears the data; If you grow up in a certain geographical region you are likely to share the same religious perspective as the dominant group (Sihks,Hindu, Muslim, Christian, etc.) what really are the odds that I rationally accept Islam if I grow up in Appalachia? The rationalizations for any particular religion are always post-hoc. A person takes part in the traditions and customs, reads the scriptures, engages with the community, excludes out-group members or anyone who challenges the dogma (or even questions it actually). Can we actually imagine a 5 year old picking up the Quran on sound rational basis over the Bible if they live in Texas? Or is it imposed by whoever the authority is. Certain truths are accepted and never questioned in the community. In some communities, specific interpretations of the scripture are rigidly imposed; and if you disagree that is heretical. You may learn to be critical, but it is always of the out-group members. Almost necessarily, the depections of the out-group are straw-mans, smeared, or described in a way to instill some sort of fear or repulsion. Of course this doesnt apply to everyone. There are many religious communities that engage with outsiders but are still reserved; but clearly there is a demarcation otherwise there would be no distinction between the in-group and out-group. Not growing up in a specific religion, however, means that you have the choice to explore alternative world views, are encouraged to interact with opposing views, taught conflict resolution (possibly) with respect to differeing world views. You are not bound to a specific scripture, or even a specific theological interpretation of the scripture. I think most people growing up in these communities are curious about questions of God (or whatever lies beyond the universe). Many people dont grow up with it, but then accept it. Many people grow up with it, then reject it (in many cases after being vehemently fundamentalist). For me, I am curious about these conversion cases because they speak louder. However, if you do not grow up with it, and approach it later in life as a young adult, you are approaching it in a different (much more critical) way. The thing is, your first words arent "Jesus" or "Muhummad". You know of them, and are curious, but when you pick up the book you judge it in accordance with however else you will critically judge an ancient ambiguous text. You do not take "revelation" and "miracles" as a fact of life, you are more skeptical to those claims. You do not ex-post justify a rare event as "God", or rationalize an event with a hybrid "this was the natural explanation but God willed it". These claims are now on equal footing with other extraordinary claims, and shall be rigorously examined according to the best possible standards of Truth. We are less quick to label something as God, and will be tolerant of ambiguity if there isnt an obvious explanation on the offset. "I dont know" is an acceptable answer in the face of genuine uncertainty.

I'll go into depth later as to what specifically drives me to agnisticism. But this exposition kind of shows what the journey looks like if you were born into an agnostic family. Next I will explain, philosophically, what agnosticism to me feels like. Its an approach to knowledge. It cant just be asserted. Everything needs to be viewed critically before acceptence and everyone once in a while be reassessed in light of new evidenc (to the best of your ability). There is room for Faith, obviously. I cannot critically assess everything at all points. I have Faith that my computer will turn on when I open it. This example is bad, however, because there is a clear mechanical explanation that can be assessed and refined with reliability engineering. This tends to be a feature of agnosticism, Faith at first can be explained later by some sort of mechanistic phenomenon (kind of like how Descartes explained in his science). 