## Does it even make sense to have arguments as to whether Capitalism is better than Communism?

When you study economics, you learn concepts like supply and demand, rational expectations, edgeworth box, cost-benefit analysis, static equilibrium, endogeneity, pareto efficiency, panel data analysis, etc maybe even Kenneth Arrows Impossibility Theorem. When you get a bit more advanced, you begin learning about more physical-system concepts such as feedback, control, state space, evolutionary game theory, dynamic equilibrium etc and perhaps prolonged disequilibrium depending on the bend of the school you attend. As an undergraduate, you may take an Economic Thought course, where you see the evolution of many ideas: Says Law, Economics of Abundance, Marshalian demand, thorstein veblen, Orthodox Marx, Creative Destruction, the beginnings of demand theory in Keynes, Monetarist rebuttle, etc. You may be overexposed to Marx, or the NeoClassicals, or the Austrians, and come out with a certain bend. But as you enter graduate school, you will, for the most part be introduced to rigorous mathematical concepts and theorem proving techniques. Concepts are used from different fields, and depending on your sub-field, you may even take classes in other departments to bolster your research capabilities. The entire time, however, you will not be studying "capitalism". You take an approach to economics, where you attempt to study actual phenomenon in the real world, even if you take a hard ideological bend in one direction for your choice of research topic or method. The ideological bend typically skews which methods you decide to employ, which data you will look at, which questions to ask, which people to rebut, etc. At the core, however, is to be empirical; and to think about an economy or economic behavior as a System, whether it be a reductionist or holistic approach (not accounting for people who want to go back to classical political economy). Most people are in some way influenced by Arrow, Hotelling, Samuelson, Keynes, etc. Most people atleast confront the "perfect competition" dogma in some way or another. Most people grapple with the idea of Rationality, etc. At the end of all of that, you may decide whether the **idealization** of the **abstract notions of capitalism and communism** fit the data, when **asserting** which is the **best way we SHOULD** adhere to. The debate, to an economist, should only make sense in the context of rejecting or accepting certain axioms, certain dogma, certain methods, or certain assumptions. It is never "capitalism good, communism bad", but rather: "assuming these conditions and these axioms, consistent with the data, one idealization seems to be **preferred** over another". There is no final answer, no **global optima**, and makes no sense to argue whether one is "better" without invoking a concept from theory or econometrics. This is probably why most sane economists tend to stay away from ideological arguments, and would rather stick to the technical jargon they know. 


All Economists invoke concepts from Systems Theory in some way or another. They are indespensible to understanding the actual economy. Whether you want to be explicit about it, is your choice as an economist. If I decided to say for example that the economy exhibits recursive behavior, I can cloak it in economic lingo. If i decide for example, to say that we cannot use aggregation methods in macroeconomics like we currently do because the sum of the parts do not equal the whole (fallacy of compositon or division?), i am implicitly stating that the economy is non-linear and exhibits chaotic emergent behavior. These are systems notions. If i take an institutionalist approach, I am saying that certain components are more important than others, implicitly invoking graph theory and networks. If i say that the stock market is "irrationally exuberent", I am saying that herd behavior is present, invoking concepts from complexity theory. If I am saying that there are spill-over effects, i am saying that there is strong coupling. When I talk about transactions between large players, i am talking about information flow in a system. In other words, it seems like all schools of economics are using different concepts from systems theory/control systems theory/complexity theory/network theory etc etc etc but calling it something else, and then arguing about which is correct because they have abstracted away from the true concepts and are not studying them appropriately. When Marx makes a prediciton about capitalism leading to socialism and then communism, he is making an assertion that the system will "phase change" into a new form due to evolutionary dynamics, which in theory should be testable or simulated in a computer to be verified.

I began to notice this as I studied algorithms/computation/systems design/systems science when becoming a data engineer. All of these concepts of system design, or in the study of natural systems, feel like they can be used in economic sciences. If the economy is a system, whether its complex or not, can in principle be configurable or guideable. In the simple case, if an economy is configurable, like a physical or engineered system, we can invoke notions of "better" or "worse" configurations based on the outcomes they produce relative to our values or objectives. This reduces the "capitalism vs communism" debate to simply a problem of configuration because on agents preferences. It makes no sense to call these beliefs, but rather specific instantiations of abstract ideals in a given time based on some underlying process that may or may not be guided. The debate is a misnomer, its simply an argument about what it is you value. Economists should instead use actual systems vocabulary to speak in a neutral way about the state of the system, how to manipulate it, how to guide it to achieve certain objectives. Based on simulations, we can assess the **stability** or **robustness** of that configuration, we can **couple or decouple** interconnected systems, we can **assess the reliability of the system** based on **information gathered in the simulations**. We can see how the components **adapt** to interventions or exogenous shocks. We can assess whether **legacy systems** are **obselete** or whether it is too costly to maintain a component. **Scalability** can be considered, including **maintenance costs** and **flexibility to changing conditions**. For example, is it too costly to maintain a given social configuration because we are dogmatic in our beliefs about socialism or capitalism? These things should be measurable, and I think in principle can be measurable and decided on. If not decided on because of individual liberty, then at the very least we can make factual assertions that are less value laden then the past 500 years. 

Input requirments, output requirments, processing requirments, backup or recovery, communications.. these are all engineerable concepts. The only only non-scientific discours in economics should be about what it is we are valuing, what it is we collectively want, or how we would like to see our future unfold. This is the domain of politics. A politician should then come to a group of economists for how to best acheive these ends, and then there can be genuine debate about which methods are better or worse in a meaningful way within the background of system design. Maybe I am out of the loop, but it sure doesnt seem like we are doing it this way. There is hope in economics. Mechanism design is becoming a more prominent sub-discipline, along with evolutionary game theory etc. 