# Examples of News Bias in 12/12/2021 8:30AM-9:00AM Fox 

## Two Observations

1. The use of irrelevant news stories to rally a specific narrative, obfuscate meaningful news topics, or create an atmosphere of resent towards opposing tribes. Whatever the end objective be, irrelevant news can be used to persuade devote listeners to strengthen their convictions towards their preferred party, and create a more divisive politic. 

The Story is of the Cuomo brothers and their reaction to Janice Deans criticisms of the Cuomos during the covid pandemic. Her in-laws passed away in nursing homes in NYC and she responded by criticizing the governors carelessness and the news anchors lack of reporting on the negligence. As retaliation, governor Cuomo was caught asking the news reporter Cuomo to paint Janice as a far right political pundit presumably to discredit her criticisms. This is typical of left wing and right wing news stations; demonize any sort of criticism to retain loyalty to their network. The issue here, however, is also with Fox response to the situation, which highlights the tit-for-tat methods used by mass media as a substitute for genuine reporting on factual states of affairs on a given day. Media bias used against your news agency should not warrant, or does not justify, further use of media bias as a retaliation. 

One can imagine what the proper world of reporting would look like. Janice Deans criticisms are critically assessed for their merits. Was there lack of reporting on the issue? Was it intentional, if so? Was the negligence at nursing homes a demonstrable fact with respect to the next best alternative strategy for assisted care? Was she motivated by the loss of her family, and furthermore, can that be attributed to the governor or to the local nursing facilities malpractice? That is step 1; the step that MSNBC should have took, but likely never do. The very fact that Fox is willing to bolster those positions shows the biased nature of their program as well. Perhaps, a fair assessment of the procedures, and interviewing multiple people to get a feel for the actual state of affairs could be useful? Ironically, the very nature of the smearing campaign by MSNBC also demonstrates the fact that irrelevant news stories flood our lives. 

The Fox response was just as great. Of course, now it is time to play the victim. "Fox does nothing wrong, this proves it, the libtards are ruining America". This is almost at the level of two children siblings fighting and pandering to their parents. Instead of reporting actual news, it is now time to show how evil the enemy is. A decent amount of time on the air was dedicated to playing the victim, defending their tribesman (presumably until she says something negative about Fox news, this is always how it works), and reaffirm a political bias; all while using air time to omit potentially useful news for their listeners. News stations are nothing more then redicalization tools. 

Throughout the reporting, there was not one mention of anything factual concerning the initial allegations; but that doesnt matter since theyre presumed to be true by virtue of the political affiliation of the speaker. Think about omissions in this way: there are millions of events happening every day, the state of affairs is constantly changing. Maybe the bridge in your neighborhood is faulty. Maybe there is an ongoing negotiation between your neighboring state that will effect your livelihood in some way. Perhaps your state government is contemplating the current allocation of funds acrosss state run agencies, or that there is some non-covid news that will effect you. Maybe there is some actual Good being done in the world, which could be highlighted. Maybe, instead of advocating for a political party, you can advocate for some local project that brings positive change to a city or municipality. Maybe they can even go into the detail about how any of the research is conducted or their choice of method; that could be useful for facilitating critical thought. The field of choice is potentially endless. At some point you have to make a decision to omit certain stories while favoring others; but can we please make it relevant to peoples lives? Every time I watch any news station, I lose a couple of brain cells and valuable time. Maybe we should de-monopolize these giants and have a more educative style of news. 


2. Omitting certain facts that may present your opponent in a favorable light, or framing a factual situation in such a way to reduce the number of positive facts attributable to an adversary. This comes at the expense of an entirely unbiased holistic view of the situation. The contrary to this position, is repeating ad naseum the positive attributes of a specific entity with respect to the situation, more than needed. 

The situation was with regards to the Kentucky tornado. It is known (unless you exclusively watch Fox), that Biden showed quick decision making with regards to aid. Regardless of your politics, give credit where credit is due. I have never been inclined to like any Democrat or Replublican president in my lifetime, but why is it so hard to show that your opponent acted responsibly? The style of presentation here is clever, and can go unseen unless trained to spot it. Essentially, there was helicopter footage hovering over damaged areas, without any indication if someone was going to provide relief when in fact something was already being drafted. This, ofcourse, creates the "well they dont care about republican states" or "inefficient government" or any sort of assessment you want to apply to the omission. Someone can easily Google to resolve the ambiguity, but people do not typically do that until later after their initial assessments are formed, beliefs are reaffirmed, and biases preserved. All Fox had to do was mention that their enemies were acting responsibly, but instead I had to watch heli-fucking-copter footage for 10 minutes before I went into the sweat room to see some old sweaty dudes balls. 

Now, as expected, left wing media is not free from the fuckery. LA times, ABC News, and CNN (at first fucking glance) are critisizing Rand Paul for requesting aid (while previously being a critic of government aid). Yes, this is hypocritical. "The word hypocrite comes from the Greek word hypokrites — “an actor” or “a stage player.” It literally translates as “an interpreter from underneath” which reflects that ancient Greek actors wore masks and the actor spoke from underneath that mask. Eventually the Greek word evolved to refer to any person who was wearing a figurative mask and pretending to be someone or something they were not. This meaning made its way to medieval France and England, where it showed up as “ypocrite” in 13th-century religious texts referring to someone who pretends to be morally good or pious in order to deceive others". One can easily get around this by claiming that they mean **specific types of aid**, surely we can all agree that disaster relief is sufficient reason for aid despite indifference or ambivilance towards other forms of aid. Like I have always said, there is nothing principally different between these two parties. They are both hypocrates, they both like aid depending on their agenda, they both point the finger. But, back to the topic; why is "Biden Kentucky" google search flooded with republican smearing click bait titles, and not specific information about the state of affairs in Kentucky, how we can help, the specifics of the relief plan, can it be bolstered, a cost benefit analysis of the plan, expert testimony on how long we can expect before that region is habitable, survey information, hazardous material leakages, effects on neighboring economies; literally anything. One interesting headline was that Mitch Mcconnel praised Biden for his response. Now, this is good. It shows that its possible to be an opposing politician, and acknowledge when your arch nemesis is doing okay. But, back to the initial topic: ad naseum reporting. We all understand at some point who approved of the fucking aid. I dont need to praise any person, especially a president, any more than needed. Back to square one, give me the details about the situation, do not market the democratic president to me any more than I need. 