## Simple Explanation on How Agnosticism is separate from Atheism

Suppose you have a box. Something may be contained in the box. Something might not be contained in the box. You have a couple of methods at your disposal for uncovering what lay within the box. One is reason; I can reason about what possibly exists in the box. My reasoning can be elaborate. It can be a formal system with axioms and definitions. It can be strongly argued for purely based on reason. However, it can also be subject to refutation based on counter-arguments, alternative axioms, rejection of certain fundamental truths etc. It is as if, we cannot determine the existence of what is in the box based purely on reason. We can possibly appeal to some standard by which we accept competing arguments, but the standards can be objected to, leading us to infinite regress. Competing standards can yield differing results. Burden of proof, burden of production, or burden of persuasion can be invoked, but we can still result in a false conclusions despite having the most sound reasoning or logical structure. So, if not reason alone, perhaps sensory experience in the form of empirical evidence, observation, experiment etc. Maybe there is some sort of evidence indicating what is in the box. Perhaps there is, physical evidence on the edges of some sort that we can observe. A lot of knowledge (like from pure reason) can be known from this sort of inquiry. But apart from opening the box, and revealing what lay beneath, we can only infer probabilistically. But then how do we assign the relevant frequencies or prior beliefs? It seems as if, we would just be assuming what we intend on proving. In general, it appears that there are known unknowns when using this type of discovery process. Consider the observable universe, what lays beyond the edges? It is impossible to know. Light cannot reach. Perhaps in the future we will discover new methods, but at this current state we simply do not know. So it seems, we cannot prove what is in the box A priori or A posteriori. It is a black box, not yielding to our inquiry. This is starting to sound like Kant, with the additional premise that posteriori knowledge is insufficient as well. We cannot use inductive methods, so how about abductive methods? These are **necessarily defeasible**. Which brings me back to the main point as to what Agnosticism really is. The Theist looks at the box and says, we can know. We know what is in that box, through reason or evidence. The Atheist says, we know nothing is in that box, through reason or evidence. The agnostic looks at the box, recognizes this is a problem of abduction, recognizes their own ignorance, and claims that at this current state we do not know and do not have the methods available to know; but are willing to revise beliefs in the face of change. This is an approach to knowledge, not a claim to knowledge. We are deliberate Bayesians, CS Peirce resonates with an agnostic. The box could contain something, we just cant know. We must rely on Hueristics in an ever changing world, and consider **plausibility, not probability** in these instances. Therefore, as it is not unreasonable to have a beleif, it is not unreasonable to be atheistic or theistic. Agnostics will likely get along with anyone labelling themselves one thing or another, but will be skeptical of highly presumptious individuals. Agnostics will likely be skeptical of "we dont know therefore X" type arguments. Agnostics will likely want you to demostrate your knowledge, or value the practical consequences of your knowledge. It is true acknowledgement of our ignorance, which ironically is a knowledge claim. 